Translational Sprints and Agile Research
xxxxx xxxxx
xxxxxx@xxxxx.xx
xxxxxx xxxx, xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxxxxx, xxxxxxxxx
ABSTRACT
In this talk we present Translational Sprints (TSs), a work-in-progress
model for delivering rapid and affordable improvements to a cur-
riculum in co-creation with learners and educators. Our model
arose in response to questions such as; How can we balance the
interests of current vs. future learners when conducting “real-time”
experiments? How can we balance rigour & speed to best help
learners? and How can we ensure educators and learners retain
ownership while partnering with researchers? Translational Sprints
apply qualitative, quantitative and design methodologies across 5
different stages; (1) Challenge Scope: identify a challenge that can be
addressed within your constraints. (2) Design Alternatives: design
possible interventions based on experience and theory. (3) Empirical
Validation: test interventions in a controlled setting. (4) Integra-
tion Design: integrate validated interventions into the curriculum.
(5) Intervention Packaging: document and publish interventions
for educators facing similar constraints, and share your research
methods for replication. Progress through the stages is cyclical; it is
necessary to return to previous stages when you reach a dead end.
Based on experience, working with limited resources, predecessors
to this model have proven effective which encourages us to share
our model as a blueprint. We are looking for research collabora-
tors and for educators interested in testing Translational Sprints
in their class. As a first step we intend to target affordable, short-
term professional trainings as they can improve a learner’s career
prospects, their shorter time frame enables rapid iteration, and they
are generally free to innovate.
KEYWORDS
Translational Sprints, Open Education, Researcher/Practitioner Part-
nerships, Translational Computing Education Research
MOTIVATIONS
Our experience as educators working outside of academic insti-
tutions in short-term professional trainings has made it clear to
us that many learners and educators are not aware of Comput-
ing Education Research (CER), much less benefiting from it. Our
primary motivation for pursuing Translational Sprints (TSs) is ex-
ploring new ways to co-create quality, relevant, evidence-based
education for all learners. This requires balancing the interests of
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
SIGCSE, March 15–18, 2023, Toronto, Ontario
© 2023 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/18/06. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
many stakeholders including researchers, educators, learners and
industry partners. There have been research programs with a struc-
ture similar to Translational Sprints [ 2], but we are not aware of a
well-defined model for this type of work.
We are also aware of limited diversity in the tech industry and
the problems this creates for society. Broadening access to quality
computing education is one step to increase representation in tech,
building towards a future where the tech industry contributes to
opportunity and social equity. However, social impact is not guar-
anteed by Translational Sprints but will require a conscious effort
from researchers, educators, learners as well as industry partners.
Finally, we are looking for a way to balance competing interests
in our own careers including; Making computing education open,
usable, useful and used. Keeping a connection to the classroom.
Contributing to the body of CER knowledge. and Staying in touch
with best practices in development. Hopefully Translational Sprints
can be one piece of the puzzle for us and others seeking to find a
balanced career.
CONTRIBUTIONS
We believe the most significant contribution of our talk is to imagine
a “native” R&D methodology for Computing Education Research.
Translational Sprints borrow from academic research, instructional
design, agile development and open education1 to imagine how
researchers and practitioners can work together [ 1] to build new
knowledge and improve learning outcomes.
Translational Sprints can also provide opportunities for researchers
to develop domain- and context-specific learning theories [3 ] that
are only possible with the direct participation of learners and strong
researcher/practitioner partnerships.
Finally, if practised with transparency, we believe Translational
Sprints offer a unique opportunity for educators to introduce the
principles of research, design, collaboration, and project manage-
ment. Depending on their level of experience, learners could even
work alongside researchers improving their own education.
REFERENCES
[1] Jill Denner, Steve Bean, Shannon Campe, Jacob Martinez, and David Torres. 2019.
Negotiating Trust, Power, and Culture in a Research-Practice Partnership. AERA
Open 5, 2 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1177/2332858419858635
[2] Steve Draper and Joseph Maguire. 2021. The Different Types of Contributions
to Knowledge (in CER): All Needed, but Not All Recognised. ACM TOCE (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1145/3487053
[3] Lauri Malmi, Judy Sheard, Päivi Kinnunen, and Jane Sinclair. 2022. Develop-
ment and Use of Domain-specific Learning Theories, Models and Instruments in
Computing Education. ACM TOCE (2022). https://doi.org/10.1145/3530221
1https://cnx.org/contents/2tQZVsKy@19/The-Reusability-Paradox